---
title: Sorting IPs from a text file with Go
[[tags]]: Go
---

The goal is to read in a line-delimited text file of IP addresses and sort the
addresses.

The final code is:

```golang
package main

import (
	"bufio"
	"bytes"
	"fmt"
	"net"
	"os"
	"sort"
)

func main() {

	// open file into fp
	fp, err := os.Open("input.txt")
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
		return
	}
	defer fp.Close()

	// New scanner for fp
	scanner := bufio.NewScanner(fp)

    // new variable to store string slices
	var lines []string

	for scanner.Scan() {
		lines = append(lines, scanner.Text())
	}

	realIPs := make([]net.IP, 0, len(lines))
	for _, ip := range lines {
		realIPs = append(realIPs, net.ParseIP(ip))
	}

	sort.Slice(realIPs, func(i, j int) bool {
		return bytes.Compare(realIPs[i], realIPs[j]) < 0
	})

	fmt.Println("Sorted IPs")
	for in, line := range realIPs {
		fmt.Println(in, line)
	}

}

```
The real magic comes from just a few sections of code. All the rest is pretty
boiler plate code.

The main sections are:

```golang

	realIPs := make([]net.IP, 0, len(lines))
	for _, ip := range lines {
		realIPs = append(realIPs, net.ParseIP(ip))
	}

```

and then the real good stuff:

```golang

	sort.Slice(realIPs, func(i, j int) bool {
		return bytes.Compare(realIPs[i], realIPs[j]) < 0
	})

```
These are the two sections that I am going to go into most detail on. I will
explain the rest of the code as well, but much more briefly.

To start, lets go over the code in general to see what it does.

```golang

	// open file into fp
	fp, err := os.Open("input.txt")
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
		return
	}
	defer fp.Close()

```

This section of the code simply reads in the file into a variable fp, which I
like to refer as file-pointer or fp. os.Open will include an error return as
well, thus we have to make sure to handle those errors.

The last line will just close the file if there is an error returned.

```golang

	// New scanner for fp
	scanner := bufio.NewScanner(fp)

	var lines []string

	for scanner.Scan() {
		lines = append(lines, scanner.Text())
	}

```

This section of code will use the bufio.NewScanner() function to read from the
file. I guess, if I wanted to make things more pliable for future use, I could
use the Reader function which would have provided a little more flexibility, but
in addition, would have provided a little more code to handle.

After creating the new scanner, I then create a new variable of type string
slice. This is so I can use that string slice for further operations on the IP
addresses in that slice. Then following, I append each line of the new scanner
into the new variable, lines.

Now we have a variable of type string slice and it is populated with strings of
IP addresses.

Because we want to sort the IP addresses in terms of IP addresses and not ascii
values (which it would be sorted as, if we tried to sort the string slice type),
we have to convert all the lines of type string slice in the variable lines, to
a type of net.IP. To further understand this type, refer too:
https://golang/pkg/net. We can achieve this conversion by making a new
composite type called realIPs. This is done with the builtin make function. As
shown in the code bellow, the make([]net.IP, 0, len(lines)) statement will
create a composite literal of type net.IP slice, denoted by the first argument.
The second argument states that the new slice will have zero length and the
third argument will state that the underlying array will have a maximum size of
length of the variables lines, which is just the string list of IP addresses.

Now we have a new composite literal to store our converted types.

To convert each line of the string slice into a type of net.IP, we have to
iterate over the lines slice, and use the net.ParseIP() function to convert the
string type to net.IP type. In the same line that we convert the string lines we
can append each conversion to the variable realIPs.



```golang

	realIPs := make([]net.IP, 0, len(lines))
	for _, ip := range lines {
		realIPs = append(realIPs, net.ParseIP(ip))
	}

```

Now for the sorting.

Because we are using a special type to sort on, the net.IP type, we have to get
creative when it comes to sorting the way we want. For this I will use the
sort.Slice() method because that will provide me with the best control for this
unique type.

We also have to use interfaces. For a good blog post about interfaces check out
https://medium.com/rungo/interfaces-in-go-ab1601159b3a.

An interface is basically a way to group methods that can be performed on a
specific object of some special type. Because we created our own type for the
realIPs (type net.IP) we have to manually throw in some special methods for the
sort.Slice() function to use. We do this with a common Less() function which
will accept two arguments of type int and return a bool. So far we are going to
sort the slice of realIPs by method of some true or false value. The next
question is what is that true or false value based on?

Here in the Less function that is being implemented inside of sort.Slice the
bool that is being returned is based on the comparison of the output of
bytes.Compare to being less than zero.

```golang

	sort.Slice(realIPs, func(i, j int) bool {
		return bytes.Compare(realIPs[i], realIPs[j]) < 0
	})

```
The bytes.Compare() function does this lexicographically. The rules that the
function abides by is that if i == j, the result will be 0. If i is less than j,
the result will be -1, and if i is greater than j, the result is +1.

Because we are looking to sort and order the IPs by small to large IPs, we can
return the bool value to sort upward with the -1 value, or true only when the
value is < 0.  This means to place j before i in the realIPs variable only if i
is greater than j, which in these terms means lexicographically smaller.

We want to sort the IP addresses from small to big, this will ultimately sort the
IP addresses on both class and CIDR block. The higher the class and the bigger
the block will be at the top and the lower the class and smaller the block will
be towards the bottom. This works great if you have a large IP range from
recon on a specific target. This can give you a better overview of how the
infrastructure is organized.

<!--more-->
---

